all of us  in our behaviors  are shaped and influenced by television  if you are alive  and able to watch this recording right  now you in your behaviors and  expectations  have been shaped by television i would  even say  if you were that one kid in the school  who had hippie parents or had religious  fundamentalist parents where your  parents didn't let you watch television  you're still shaped by it because all of  your classmates who surrounded you and  all of your teachers and all of the  adults in life they all grew up watching  television and they all communicated  that stuff to you i think for years  before i saw the movie wayne's world  i'd heard every joke out of wayne's  world on the schoolyard you know like  just other  other people at school a lot of those  things they get communicated to you it  wasn't so much pro for me but i remember  one of my one of my uh  gym teachers actually was the gym  teacher complaining that kids would come  in all hopped up off of watching  saturday night live the tv shows it had  a few years a few golden years it was  really popular with with children  frankly and teenagers and they'd all be  repeating the jokes at a certain level  and he would say he could tell because  he was a gym coach the kids who couldn't  really work out who couldn't really  exercise and stuff you know on the on  the monday or whatever it's like well  they've been up all night you know they  haven't been they haven't been not  sleeping probably not till 2am or  something watching this stupid tv show  okay  a lot of us  [Laughter]  to an extent  we maybe can never fully be aware of  right  our expectations are shaped by  television  if you help people  if you try to help people the vast  majority of them don't want to be helped  you don't see that on television  talk to a woman who told me her dream  was to get involved with humanitarian  work in thailand laos cambodia  basically  rescuing prostitutes  from their pimp  now i know a lot about that line of work  this woman i was talking to just being  with you she knows nothing about it she  comes out of a catholic  religious background  and she thinks she's going to be batman  she thinks she's going to swing in on a  rope there's going to be a good guy and  a bad guy and like she's going to punch  out the bad guy and rescue the  the good guy  and you know because i've done research  on this and i talk to people  connected to this  this industry  at different stages  you know  i say to her have you considered the  possibility  that when you punch out the pimp  the prostitute  screams at you weeps runs over and hugs  and takes care of the pimp  like have you considered the possibility  that the pimp  has been her boyfriend since high school  and that's her best friend if you  consider the possibility that this is a  woman who like hates her parents  and who quite consciously and  intentionally ran away with her  boyfriend or that's  that's the man she shares an apartment  with that's the man her life revolves  around right that's the man she runs to  for comfort and support when she's  weeping or screaming and you've just  punched him out because you think you're  a batman and he's the joker or something  right like  what makes you assume  that this prostitute  wants to escape  what makes you think she wants to help  your offering the compassion  you're offering  right again sir southeast asia we're  talking about here thailand laos  cambodia there are a lot of these women  who will say to you straight to your  face  their parents were rice farmers  their grandparents were rice farmers  they don't want to go back to the farm  there these women would say to you in  their first month  working as a prostitute they earn more  money than their father made as a year  made more money than father made in  their in a year as a rice farmer they  don't want to go back to that they don't  want your help  they didn't ask you to come here and  screw up their whole their whole  business their whole situation and they  may have a plan they may have money  stacked up to retire or very commonly to  open a shop or something they want to  open a restaurant or something want to  open a hotel once they've stacked up  enough paper they may have their whole  life together and you think you're  rescuing them and then here's the other  thing  if they were trying to escape right if  they did want the particular help  you're trying to offer if they didn't  want someone to punch out their they're  pimp and off the way out right what what  would they have already done before you  for you the supposed hero got on the  scene right  most people you offer advice to even the  best advice that don't want that advice  right most people you want pardon me  most people you want to help most people  you're trying to help  they don't want the help and  because we're raised with television  with comic books with these notions of  heroism notions of what helping means  and so on most of us don't want to stop  and reflect  on on what the help is we're offering of  what value that will be to other people  i'm going to talk about  how i uh  with my years of accumulated foolishness  and wisdom actually try to help people  who are going through some kind of  tragedy  going through some kind of heartbreak in  their lives  and  i'm starting by saying  i completely believe that i am helping i  completely believe this is the advice  people need to hear but it's not what  they want to hear and it's not what they  expect here  most people in our culture and our  generation our time will respond  to you saying that you feel bad  by saying oh you need to feel good  it's like  this is this goes back centuries  like you're crying at a funeral oh get  drunk drink alcohol  this whole culture of getting drunk it  feels oh you feel bad about yourself  drink alcohol to feel good and it's the  same [ __ ] it's the same kind of  self-medication strategy with taking  prescription drugs like  antidepressants ssris prozac you know  what i mean like oh oh your problem is  you feel bad so we're not going to talk  about solving the problem we're not  going to talk about how to change your  life or whatever we're not we're not  going to talk about this person's death  we're just going to talk about how you  can  you can feel good where what you're  problematizing is the feeling and the  solution  sadly is some kind of distraction right  like alcohol at best is a distraction  it's not going to bring your dead  husband back to life you know i mean  it's not going to actually solve the  problem it's not even going to help you  think about or reflect on or getting  some detachment on or an analytical  perspective on on the problem that's  what most people are used to  that's what most people are expecting  and that's not my approach at all  you know what i say to people who are  going through some kind of tragedy or  some kind of heartbreak is  you need to have something  more meaningful  in your life you need to have something  so much more meaningful  that it eclipses this heartbreak it  eclipses the stretch it's so much  greater in scale and intensity right in  the same way that the sun  is greater than the moon okay all right  i've got that the wrong way right i  guess it depends which  which type of eclipse we're talking  about here  [Laughter]  mixed metaphor  you have to have something  so much more meaningful in your life  that this tragedy you're struggling with  it seems like a  it seems like a foot  it seems seems very trivial indeed  and you know sometimes i talk to people  this works with young people works with  old people also let's just say they're  going through a divorce  let's just say  you know a man finds out that his wife  has been cheating on him and now they're  gonna have divorce so he's at that  moment he's really heartbroken and so on  you know  but could be anything it could be a  professional disappointment it could be  you're enrolled in university program  and you find out that's going to be  impossible for you to proceed with all  your career plans everything you assumed  based on that university program it's  not going to work out um whether that's  your own fault or it's no fault of your  own you know you have that kind of  crushing disappointment  you know  someone in that position they've  probably already told their parents they  may have already told their best friend  or something before they told you  they've told number people probably  every single one of those people said oh  you poor dear  you feel sad you should feel happy like  oh you should drink alcohol or you  should go to disneyland or you should  get a massage like you should you should  do something to feel happy you should do  something to feel  good about yourself  and that's not what i'm saying to these  people at all right i'm saying you  should take on  work and responsibilities  so  meaningful right of such intensity of  such scale of such importance that it  makes this tragedy of life seem like no  big deal then i'm often saying to them  again whether they're young or old  try to imagine yourself just five years  from now so if you're 25 think about  when you're 30 years old  and looking back on this  what are you gonna think  what are you gonna feel  you know  like  yeah your girlfriend cheated on you you  know  you're going to be a guy in your 30s  yeah you once had a girlfriend that  cheated on you  so what you know it's it's going to be  like a funny story to tell it's going to  be something you look back on and  probably laugh about  just five years from now not even 10  years like right now you're so close to  this this seems like an overwhelming  tragedy it seems something you can't  handle  right but just five years from when you  look back on it how are you going to  calibrate this right so again it's an  overused  simile in english like think about  what we mean when we say to somebody see  it try to see it in perspective  when you see something in perspective  you distinguish between something that's  large  some that's actually enormous in scale  as opposed to something that's just  close up to you  right when you don't have any  perspective  you can't tell the difference  between something that's huge and  something you just happen to be too  close to like a tree is up close to your  face but if it were further away on the  horizon you judge its size differently  given your sense of  perspective i'm going can give you a  real quick  plausible example and again nobody wants  to hear this like i completely accept  like i i think my advice is good i think  it's sound i think it's helping people  but i also totally understand in our  culture in our time this is not what  anyone wants to hear  so let's say i've got this friend and  he's completely heartbroken  uh he's going through some kind of  personal tragedy this kind  and i say look you know  i have a research project i can bring  you in on  we're going to do a survey of the  literature on cancer research  we're going to go through  thousands of articles  on you know  the cure for cancer so to speak  and what we're going to do is we're  going to write an article  about what hasn't been researched yet  the areas of research that have been  neglected the gaps in the research is  already going on and we're going to go  through and compile  every single paper that said  we don't know this here's something we  don't know there's something we don't  understand further research is needed  and then we're going to  investigate and see if that further  research was ever done  and if it wasn't done  our essay our survey our analysis  that's gonna highlight that now i'm  giving you so much detail of this  because it would be it would be a bit  too vague i just said oh yeah yeah let's  find the cure for cancer  well  what does that really mean okay i'm not  talking about something so intangible  and far off and distant and removed by  decades or centuries let's find the cure  for this is a research project and we're  going to wrap it up in less than a year  and then we're going to publish it it's  going to be really meaningful and we're  going to go out and promote it and say  hey guys we did this analysis of what is  the research that isn't being done what  are the gaps in the current research  effort you know why what needs to happen  next for cancer research and you can be  a part of that  project  i want you to be a part of something i  want you to take on  responsibility for something right  so enormous so meaningful so rewarding  and something you're engaged with so  intensely  that now this tragedy in your life you  know whatever it is  you see it in  a different perspective and i think a  great deal of the brittleness  of middle-aged people in our society and  our culture  is that they still live like teenagers  where they have nothing meaningful in  their lives and they never have had  anything meaningful life not even like  they were committed to slang in the past  and now they've lost it they never  developed those muscles  in the first place and you know look i'm  talking about middle-aged people  you you probably have known some  teenagers like this whether it's your  cousin or you know  somebody you're your little sister  somebody you related to like you've  probably known a teenager  who's so upset  and so furious  because she had a crush on a guy and she  went on two dates with him and then he  said on twitter or he said on instagram  that she's she's just a dumb [ __ ]  anyway and he doesn't ever want to talk  to her again it's something some real  teenagers about this  and she is bereaved and she is weeping  and she's not going to school anymore  she misses a week of class and like  she's like in because like for a lot of  teenagers this these kinds of things i  mean middle-aged person the kind of  shrug  they have whatever kind of attached  attitude if if you haven't really been  around teenagers you may have forgotten  you know  just how deeply these things  cut them and it's easy to say oh like  think about the the kind of coping  strategy agriculture oh uh it's because  of hormones it's because they're  immature like you know we have all these  ways to to deflect it right well you  know like again something you can say to  this teenager is how do you think you're  going to look back on this five years  from now but they can't imagine that yet  when you're 30  you know what it's like the difference  between something at 25 and 30 and now  you can think about it between 30 and 35  what kind of detached perspective you  have people like if you're talking to  someone who's 15 they only know the  difference between 10 and 15.  but you you can try to talk think about  the things that really upset you when  you were 10 years old and how you look  back on them now you can try to talk  them through that try to get them to  think that way but that's that's  probably not going to work and the  reality is they have never had something  in their life  like finding the cure for cancer  something they're really committed to  that's really rewarding that puts these  other things in perspective right  because it's not nothing it's not  trivial you're not upset for no reason  and you're not going to solve the  problem  by doing something to make yourself feel  good you knock and i think some parents  would i think i've known parents who sit  down and drink whiskey with their kid oh  come on let's let's have a drink let's  feel better about it  drink whiskey let's watch a movie  together or let's go skiing or something  do something they consider fun distress  let's do something it'll take your mind  off it think about that it'll it'll take  your mind off it  right  and this is like the diametric opposite  of the advice and people was like no no  you don't need to take your mind off it  you don't need to feel good you don't  need to counteract feeling sad by  feeling happy you need to pour your  energy into something that's really  challenging really meaningful and really  rewarding and and this is the insulting  part that's why people don't want to  hear this on some level anyone who hears  this advice  will know  that if they had something this  meaningful in their life they never  would have been so upset about this  tragedy in the first place right and  guys so like melissa was with me when my  father died  okay i'm just i'm just being real  i don't think i cried once i don't think  i was upset once i remember my when my  grandmother died too right like you  think you're the only person whose  father died like you think this is new  like  you know there are two types of people  in the world there are people who live  long enough to see their father die and  there are people who die tragically  young and then their father has to bury  them these are the two [ __ ] options  which do you prefer like we all know  sooner or later our father's going to  die we all know we're going to go  through right like what do you want me  you want to act like this is some kind  of tragedy i can't handle  and look guys i do i do criticize myself  on this the problem with my strategy is  that when you have something in your  life that's so meaningful like you're  researching the cure for cancer  right  then when you're separated from that  then you really cry then you really have  an experience of you know profound  sorrow because that was what you're  putting all of your uh all of your time  and talent and energy into right  uh and you know that that example alone  may stand but i mean you guys know just  to give an example i uh i committed to  learning the cree language it's a first  nations language an american indian  language whatever you know obviously i  can give a whole bunch of examples here  but i have this whole plan for what i'm  doing with the next 10 years of my life  and i care so much about the politics  and i care so much about helping these  people because no offense  in canadian politics it's really a kind  of altruistic humanitarian thing to do  um it is it's a big it is  self-sacrificing to go into korean  ojibwe rather than greek or latin or  any other language that's going to be  more rewarded in in every other way  but it's like well this is my country  and this is my country's history of  genocide and this is the political  policy crisis we're facing now and these  people need the help and who's going to  do it so you have a sense of mission and  purpose it's meaningful it's rewarding  and right and then it's taken away from  you  okay so that's that's then tremendous  sorrow  and how are you going to cope with it  you know and i'm just being real with  you this is part of my tradition i cope  the same way  i pour myself into something else that's  meaningful and rewarding and enormous  and intense  so i'm going to read you this um and  what's your way guys  it's not perfect  it's not okay  it's horrible it's terrible and you know  i've done my share of weeping right but  the tragedies in my life right like i i  calibrate them in this sense you know  whatever you have a  you have a crush on someone and they  don't have a crush on you back like  that's i know i get it that's  devastating i remember i got a detailed  account from this guy his sister his  younger sister was going to go on a date  and she had one zit  she got acne right there on her she got  one  zit  and she was weeping and screaming  and she refused to look in the mirror  without putting a band-aid  a full set over her chin  right and i think she was 16 you know  from from memory  and he and his mom  like they spent like hours like trying  to console her and talk like look it's  one zit you know they said whatever they  they said to her right but that's you  know whatever she was a vain  pretty teenage girl and she has never  thought in this long term when she  doesn't have anything else in her life  and it's just devastating for her to  look in the mirror and think she's ugly  i think there's a there's a problem with  her face she's totally  you know torn up about it um  and you know i'm sorry but  most of the tragedies  you experience in your life just five  years later they're going to seem that  ridiculous to you like what so sorry  when she goes from 16 to 21 that's  probably become a funny story she tells  to a friend now like oh yeah i remember  the first time i had a zit before going  on a date with this guy  you know probably she and her mom will  look back and joke about it five years  later remember that time you were  screaming and weeping and you refused to  go outside the house if you didn't have  a band-aid over your chin  and no now think about the things you  you've been through in life right  um  but look you know what i'm suggesting  here it's not perfect all right um  i do have to deal with my own heartbreak  with my own tragedy in life  and um  you know you can't compare it  to perfection  you have to compare it to the coping  strategies that are actually dominant in  our culture and society right now which  is people drinking whiskey  all right so i'm going to read this this  email it's the reason for the title of  the description this video  um  you know i got this detailed account  from a police officer just over the  radio here  did this radio show and they interviewed  a series of police officers  i think they were all diagnosed with  something like ptsd they were police  officers who'd gone for psychiatric help  after after cracking up and it was a  female police officer  and she had a case that involved this is  a long story short obviously she saw a  dead baby all right this is a there was  a dead infant  and the same  night it happened  she went home to her apartment with her  husband and she was weeping and and  shaken up and her husband responded this  i guess he's a loving husband he  canceled everything he was doing  he got out a bottle of whiskey  sat down with her at the table face to  face and they drank the whole bottle of  whiskey together as she was weeping and  shaking and blubbering about how  disturbed she was  to see this baby i don't think that's  the last bottle of whiskey right  and  surprise  didn't solve the problem she ends up in  a psych ward she ends up not being able  to do her job she ends up not coping or  not recovering at all like dude i get it  sorry this this issue specifically like  the link between death and alcohol  i was thinking about this the other day  for very very different reasons i'm  studying lotion again now i'm studying  the lotion language  and i remember a guy  he was genuinely a tough guy and he'd  been in a he'd been in and out of prison  in the united states he'd done a prison  set in the united states so he dealt  with all kinds of tough situations in  his life  um he was very proud to say that he had  never been a gang member he had from my  perspective he'd been a career criminal  but he worked alone and he was proud of  that he had relatives who were members  of gangs he was like no no he never sent  him again he worked as an independent  gangster  a freelance a criminal you know  but he'd really been a tough guy so this  is an american he goes to cambodia  he watches this woman die  and again for americans this is very  disturbing in different ways in a  country like cambodia somebody dies  nobody calls the ambulance nobody like  there's there's no government  they just start preparing the body for a  funeral you know and a lot of these  family buddhist families  you take the body you roll it up and for  a lot of americans it's very disturbing  it looks like a barbecue  it's i'm vegan but it doesn't look that  different from taking a cow or a pig and  putting it on a barbecue you take a  human body and you put it on a pile of  wooden sticks that you light on fire  defense there's more than one way to  have a buddhist funeral but like  third world conditions in the buddhist  country cambodia they don't they don't  there's no paperwork to fill up for the  government like oh  you know they're dead  roll them up and put them on a put them  on my funeral boat anyway so this is an  american guy and he was a tough guy but  he was so shaken up by watching this  woman die and everyone else all the  cambodians around there were completely  cool with it they all had detached  buddhist attitudes they're all people  who grew up with this doctrine all is  impermanent life is suffering  that's good  they're expecting death to come for them  and so on they've probably done it  before they've probably dealt with  relatives dying in this way  and um  it's very taboo  in that culture to drink alcohol in that  context different cultures are different  that way like when you can encountering  alcohol you're not supposed to drink  alcohol in cambodia when death and  funerals and things are involved you  know  and uh this american guy he slinks away  and he gets himself a bottle of whiskey  and he's trying to without offending  anyone get drunk because nobody else is  is drinking you know  this is cambodian culture i don't know  any other culture in the world where  people would do this to you  a cambodian guy who speaks some english  walks up to him  and says in broken english  you drink  you drink alcohol  you coward  you afraid  afraid to die  afraid of death  that's why you drink alcohol  i got this story from the american guy  he said this cambodian guy just stood  there  and denounced him  it wasn't for a short time they weren't  busy  [Laughter]  and you know and like obviously at first  other people weren't paying attention  but then the other people come over and  they're like yeah yeah that's true he's  a coward he's getting drunk he's afraid  of death  other people like yeah good point you  know like yeah that's true  so he feels even more  [ __ ] humiliated  uh i'm not gonna digress into that but  like if you're used to japanese culture  before you go to cambodia  it's shocking  how  blunt the cambodians are with you if  you're used to thai culture of use to  ocean culture  cambodia it's a real contrast just the  adjacent or surrounding cultures in asia  i don't think anyone in china would say  that to you you know even though china  also many many millions of people china  are buddhist i don't think anyone in  china would really insult you that way  i didn't put on a cambodian accent for  that for that story  um  we have some questions coming into the  audience i will i will get your  questions in a second if anyone has  something intelligent to say  you can type it now  if anyone wants to hit the thumbs up  button you can there are 41 people  listening to this and you're afraid to  hit the thumbs up you are not hitting  the thumbs up button because you're a  coward  you're not hitting the thumbs up button  because you're afraid of death okay  you're afraid of your name associated  with the horrifying advice in this video  so um there's a link in the description  i left this advice on another youtube  channel a guy called the retro bro and  his youtube channel  it's been 98 about video games  right i would guess he's the same age i  am approximately you know he's grown man  and it's it's a retro video gaming  channel  and he made a video where he was really  down bad  about the way in which the tommy  talarico and television controversy had  ruined his channel and to some extent  ruin his life okay  now you could already repeat what i've  said in the first half of this video and  apply to the situation how is that going  to seem just five years from now when he  looks back on you you can talk some of  those things through you know but here  is what i said to him and again it's not  nothing he's not upset for no reason  he's not broken down or upset for no  he's not  one  you can change your youtube channel at  any time  you can delete every single video prior  to this one if you want to  two  you can change your life  at any time  you can change who you are  and then your youtube channel can  reflect that  i'm studying lotion right now  a language that not many people study  i can live stream that  i can start making friends  on that basis  you can too  you can study languages  study history study politics  you can start doing something more  meaningful than video games both on and  off youtube  and then the intellivision debacle will  seem like a minor footnote in your life  now again  i don't think i need to describe here  what the intellivision tobacco is it is  upsetting he was personal friends with  this guy tommy talarico  tom tellery goes project that this guy  got involved with and roped into and was  promoting he did a podcast for it he  made all these videos where he was it  became a big thing in his life certainly  his youtube life and so on and you know  now everyone on the internet is is  denouncing it as a scam i totally  totally understand the sense in which  he's crestfallen and disillusioned and  depressed and upset by that right  um  [Music]  five years from now  and i can i can combine these two pieces  of advice at fault  how pathetic and meaningless would your  life be  if five years from now you look back and  this is still a big deal  you know and like again sorry if it's  your love life and a lot of you are i've  got a friend right now she went through  divorce like five minutes ago of course  it's subsidy of course it's horrified  i've got i've got male friends who are  really upset and disappointed by the  experiences of women i got female  friends who are really disappointed and  upset with experience in men but like  if you're talking to a 25 year old  and they're heartbroken about this love  affair  like well  what what would you have done with your  life between 25 and 30  if this is still such a big deal to you  when you're 30. like if in those five  years you're leading a really meaningful  really rewarding highly motivated life  you're finding the cure for cancer  you're learning lotion  you're studying the politics of the cree  in the ojibwe  whatever it is you're doing you're  pouring your energy meaningful right  it's it's not possible to think of that  person living that life for those five  years whatever it is we want that  meaningful life who's still going to  feel overwhelmed still going to feel the  emotional  he's going to feel emotionally  devastated by this looking back in five  years now and now hypothetically let's  talk about the opposite  let's talk about someone for the next  five years live such a pathetic life  like there's no new love that comes into  it there's no new experience there are  no no ambitions no initiative no attempt  to make the world a better place no  attempt to make yourself a better person  no attempt to learn yourself right that  person after five years maybe they're  still  overwhelmed and devastated by this thing  and guys again i'm sorry but i've even  if your father died  everybody's father dies  the only way you can not experience your  father dying is if you die before your  father and then he's got to bury you  instead right like that may seem like  the most overwhelming terrible thing in  your life when you're up close to it but  it's not  um  and and yeah  like  again i'm not trying to misrepresent  this or oversell it that commitment  to leading a meaningful life it entails  its own sorrows  it entails its own tragedies  my commitment to studying korean ojibwe  my commitment to studying pali ancient  buddhist philosophy before that my  commitment to doing humanitarian work in  cambodia and laos right like things i've  tried to do positively  they entail their own sorrows their own  tragedies don't disappoint even so  melissa's here  melissa and i  having this plan to open a bakery  all right may sound like a small thing  some of you right but actually if you go  to cambodia and do humanitarian work  that can be short term you you do it for  two years two years five you know this  was a plan this for the rest of our  lives we're gonna go into baking right  that's it's really a big deal  we're going to open a vegan bakery and a  friend of mine just called me a couple  days ago uh asking me to go into  business then because he remembers he  was like hey look would you be going to  own and manage your bakery uh in this  part of this larger complex he's gonna  he's gonna want to operate  um okay well that that's actually  something that's gonna change your life  for the rest of your life and you're  gonna be waking up at five o'clock in  the morning every day to roll dough to  make the bread you know what i mean if  this is going to change every day your  life it's a big deal like even if you  think it's shallow compared to finding  the cure for cancer  it's a big deal for me in my life to  commit to becoming a baker and then you  have the agony and the sorrow of that  the heartbreak of the disappointment of  that not working out of that proven to  be impossible in my case impossible just  because the quality of the college uh  the college system uh here in canada was  so bad was so terrible so that's that's  why we quit it's you know totally  unexpected tragic thing so yeah leading  a meaningful life does entail sorrow it  doesn't tell suffering right but it's  meaningful suffering  you're miserable you're heartbroken  about something that's really worthwhile  that's really meaningful to be  heartbroken about you know  it's not a trivial difference as opposed  to you know weeping over things that are  that are really meaningless  and yeah the  you know so i've given this somewhat  convoluted uh example or allegory of  talking about perspective what's really  big  as opposed to what's close to you like  what's big but it's far away on the  horizon and what's small but it's so  close to you you don't have the  detachment you don't have the distance  to see how big it truly is to see how  small it really is right that issue  but the other thing  that changes in scale  is you  you become a bigger person you become a  more substantive person you become  intellectually ethically and emotionally  more massive  to this point where  finding out your father died it's really  not that big to deal to you  the point where finding out your  girlfriend cheated on you is really not  that big a deal to you where not just  having acne on your face is not that big  deal to you but like you have a car  accident that really changes your face  and it's not that big a deal to you  right and for someone else it's it's  totally devastating because they they  themselves haven't increased in size  relative to these  tragedies both of these disappointments  so we got some donations i normally turn  to melissa and say melissa gets the  first  the first crack and ask the question but  i'm going to answer the questions from  charlie first  uh he's donated some money to support  the channel which i want to say donated  some money to support me frankly  um  charlie says quote what is something you  consider meaningful to dedicate your  life to gal  read the rest question one sec but  already there i want to answer that  okay  so look guys  there's what's meaningful to me  so it's meaningful to you and then  there's a separate challenge of  can you explain to your own mother that  it's meaningful  can you explain to your own grandmother  that's me i'll just brief digression  into this at one point i was totally  passionate about studying this set of  languages  language history culture politics all  comes together but the language is a lot  of the work right in southeast asia so  this involves cambodian lotion sinhalese  burmese  right pali right  and i go to see my grandmother this is  face to face in my grandmother's  apartment this wasn't via skype or  something right go to see my grandmother  and i show her my handwriting like i  opened up say look this is what i'm  studying and you know to show her that  because you know i'm not going to show  her the textbook i'm sure the work i'm  doing you know so she gets a sense also  just how many hours it is i'm filling up  pages with all this work and research  and  she doesn't get it at all  she doesn't get it at all you know it's  completely incomprehensible to her what  is meaningful or rewarding about this  but like her reaction to this is like  why would you want to study laos or  cambodia or sri lanka or myanmar and  i'll always remember this i'm sorry just  very memorable me take take take it to  my grandmother i'll take this with me to  the grave you know  she responds to this by kind of starting  saying well  why would you learn that  instead of say  french  you know like as if it would be more  rewarding for me to study french there's  your friends now you know okay i'm not  saying this to keep scoring on my  grandmother right but like this is  meaningful to me  um and i've had this experience the  librarian  when i go to the library to get these  books may scoff at me may insult me i've  had that you have librarians who are  people with no level of intellectual  sophistication they think you're a loser  like really it's ridiculous but it's  true like your own mother your own  grandmother right okay but this is the  thing in that case there's something  tangible i can show  my grandmother i'm doing i can also like  show her i remember on a separate visit  i remember showing my grandmother i  brought her a series of um like coffee  table books illustrated photograph film  books that showed her laos in cambodia  like look this is the stuff i'm doing  these are the places i'm going like i  could show her  what this was what was meaningful about  it like in some sense  i can't really show you what's  meaningful about it but i can i can get  your imagination wrong  i remember it was also a bizarre comment  from her because some of the photographs  were showing they showed like starvation  and poverty like they showed the  social problems i was there to research  and deal with and she said oh well this  was her wording i can remember the exact  wording well i think it's good that you  chose to work with a handsome people  like obviously it's possible to show  photographs that are of like sexy uh  singers or actors or something but like  i'm like these are pictures of people  like in refugee camps and whatever  poverty conditions so you know and also  i think i had some  i might have had some photographs of  buddhist temples or something i was like  and  you know i think she was she was  basically saying that they were they  were better looking than africans i  think it was like  well you know compared to going to  ethiopia and helping  some attitudes are best left behind in  the 1930s people anyway ladies and  gentlemen my grandmother  you know okay but there's something i  can show her i can say so using  charlie's wording this is something  meaningful i'm dedicating my life to  right now again you can imagine if it  were math if it were chemistry if it  were physics like hey you're doing  rocket science and you show your  grandmother look this is the type of  work i do with rockets maybe you can't  visually right your mother your  grandmother  the hardest thing of all is when all  you've got to show was a blank piece of  paper  all right  i had a night recently so i've i've  gotten my caffeine tolerance down to  zero i've quit caffeine many many times  but i had gotten my caffeine tolerance  down to zero i'd quit for enough days  that my my caffeine was zero and then  there was one day where i went with  melissa  i had about two ounces of coffee this is  less than a third of a full-size cup of  coffee and then i had a whole cup of  decaf  i think was the decaf that killed me  because you know decaf is never really  decaf decaf always has some caffeine  and i was awake till 6 a.m i did that  first thing in the morning  right  9 a.m 10 all right i had this coffee a  whole decaf and this much calf  i wrote the first chapter of a new book  that's a book none of you guys know  about it's not the books you know  started working on it started working it  was well i'm awake anyway okay do first  chatter  start a new book okay  how do you go to your grandmother and  say yeah here's a stack of blank paper  and i'm going to write a novel i'm going  to write a comedy  that's going to change the world  that's what voltaire did  right  and like look i'm not i'm not a fan of  voltaire i'm not a fan of walt disney  either right but like you can really say  people like voltaire and people like  walt disney they have james  you know whether you're talking about  fiction or non-fiction to say to your  mother to say to your grandmother and  obviously good luck your work colleagues  or if you sleep around you might have  three or four girlfriends but none of  them love you that much and i don't  respect you that much it's not how i  live my life but you could be sleeping  with people who don't really love and  respect you  and you say to them yeah yeah i think  i've got what it takes to take this  blank piece of paper and really turn it  into something whether that's fiction or  non-fiction whether that's based on  research or humor or what have you right  so my point is in this sense  we're dealing with an easy example  when you talk about dedicating yourself  to something meaningful in life that  already exists whether that's cambodia  egypt laos  physics any of these things that are  tangible and visible and the hardest  thing of all is where you're dedicating  yourself to something meaningful that  doesn't exist yet it's still a blank  sheet of paper it's still a blank canvas  it's still a blank chalkboard  okay so his next question is question is  for example what advice would you have  for your daughter growing up this whole  youtube channel is my advice to my  daughter growing up  every single video including this one is  my advice  there's no plot twist there what do you  think you think you think i give my  advice diff but do you think i'd give my  daughter advice different from what i'm  giving you charlie come on  um oh god so look uh for me this is an  easy question answer charlie asks what  is the biggest tragedy that you've  experienced in life how did you cope  with it do you consider death a tragedy  so i think it's already clear i don't  think death is a tragedy but you know um  something i say my friends  you know melissa's heard this but  friends who've known me facebook all the  time is you know you might assume that  like my divorce from my first wife is my  big strategy might assume that my  separation from my daughter is the  biggest strategy of my life but no the  biggest tragedy in my life is the  canadian education system and that's  because it's a tragedy i've never been  able to disentangle myself from the  reality of university education in  canada college education in canada  you've already heard a bit about that in  this video the way in that which that  has ruined my life again and again and  again  um  you know like uh i mean i think you can  tell i'm not upset about it like not in  this moment  but that's something i could never get  away from and i could never get over  and you know sorry if you guys don't  know i looked at all the alternatives i  looked at going to university in germany  and taiwan and japan and basically  everywhere on the planet and there was  no way for me to move forward with  formal education so that is in brief uh  the biggest strategy of my life and it's  not it's not a disappointment attraction  that happened just one time  again and again again over so many years  with so many university programs  yeah  so um okay shout out to gen x gamer  you're gonna have to start the beginning  of this video unfortunately there's no  way you can understand what we're  talking about by joining in the middle  so charlie also asks quote some vegans  claim the planet would benefit with  humans not being here less pollution  etcetera do you agree so i think i have  made videos discussing this before in my  critique of anti-natalism so i have a  playlist of videos called  anti-anti-natalism so you can you can  talk about that um  be very suspicious  of  solutions to problems that rely on  subtraction  rather than addition  um i have known many people  who said that the way to improve africa  was to depopulate it and it's it's  always africa it seems you know there's  a lot of latent and implicit racism  and you know back in the 1990s there was  the boom of hiv aids in africa  you hear all the time you're all the  time white people middle class or  wealthy white people saying how happy  they were that supposedly the population  would decrease in africa and all that  those people knew about africa was what  they saw on the tv news they saw  fundraisers for starvation in ethiopia  and so on  and by the way ethiopia is a wonderful  country it really is it's the most  misrepresented country on earth you  could have a great life in ethiopia  you'd have a great vacation there i  um  ethiopia has a lot going for it as an  ancient continuous culture going back  thousands of years that isn't built on  genocide and so on  they really have a lot of advantages as  a country and by the way ancient  language and very interesting language  so on and so forth  and literature and  music and everything else  um anyway ethiopia actually has a lot a  lot of advantages starting you can read  about it in herodotus read about a great  place you know  but you know  whatever you think the problem  with africa is and africa has problems  why do you think the solution why do you  presume would be subtraction  because obvious in a very shallow and  insincere level  you can argue that any problem would be  solved if human beings didn't exist  to endure it to perceive it to to  experience it  and i think many people are too stupid  to to really recognize how fundamentally  wrong their their reasoning is now i'll  give you another example that touches me  directly that i deal with still deal  with all the times i'm saying  when you talk to people about  first nations languages first nations  genocide  the disappearance of korea ojibwe  inuit inducted right  many people will say to you white white  people middle class people but frankly  black people too uh you know black  americans black canadians  they will they will say it would be  better if that just didn't exist if  those people didn't exist you know and  you know they don't realize how  close to adolf hitler they are really  coming in there in their in their views  so you know um  how do we live with problems how do we  solve or overcome problems  when it is in this sense subtraction  that people are talking about you know  hey guys do you want a cure for tooth  decay we could pull out everybody's  teeth  we could have a country where everyone  is wearing dentures where there are no  teeth in the whole country where at  birth  you eliminate people's teeth so the  teeth never even grow in in the first  place think about the savings  no more wisdom teeth removal no more  dentists everyone in the country is  literally toothless just pull out all  the teeth coast to coast for millions of  people people and everyone can just wear  dentures their whole lives  you know  um tooth decay is a problem dentist the  cost of dentistry is a problem right um  the cost of taking care of elderly  people in hospitals is a problem do you  want to eliminate all the elderly people  um  to me it's obviously outrageously stupid  but what it is that's so stupid about it  is not obvious  no melissa do you want to exercise your  privilege as our our prime audience  member  do you want to offer a question  right  right so the one the one top well you if  you want to you can reply to some of  these questions i got from that but the  topic here is dealing with tragedy and  dealing with heart rate  from a nihilistic perspective and i'd  say i haven't even gone into that yet  but obviously i could now add on a whole  extra hour-long monologue about the fact  that the way most people in christian  culture  in jewish culture and muslim which the  way most people respond to tragedy  is to say believe believe believe right  and also another really sick and twisted  thing in religions that's broader than  the judeo-christian in christianity but  also in hinduism and buddhism right  believe believe believe  sacrifice sacrifice sacrifice the way to  deal with sorrow is to be  self-sacrificing right to be repentant  some of these things you want god  i wasn't even i wasn't intending to be  on camera so i'm sorry if i  look a mess um  so  i can relate to what you're saying about  the biggest tragedy in your life being  the education system  in multiple ways  um but  in one  really uh  close in one way this that was really  close to me and took me a long time to  fully understand the implications of it  in my life  and why i responded the way i did  when i was  19 and 20 when it was when i was going  through it  um so i had always  thought of myself as  like a perfect student you know like i  had a 4.0 in high school and i got into  the school that i wanted to go to the  top school in my state just for me that  was that was part of just who i was i  was like i'm i'm somebody who does all  of her class work all of her homework  right and and succeeds in in school you  know if if nothing else like i'm going  to be a good student right  um  why am i i feel like i'm out of breath  um but yeah  um  and it was just a complete shock to me  when i failed one of my classes in  university  i failed organic chemistry and that same  semester  i was taking a physics course and a  neurobiology course so these were  difficult science classes for anybody to  take but it just i didn't anticipate  that  i could actually fail a class and it was  like the this  it's it's partly because of the grading  system of that class it was just  terrible at my university the only  grades were like three exams so i did  okay on the first exam but then i didn't  do well on the second i didn't do all  the third and then i failed you know i  filled the whole class  and um i got put on academic probation  because i did poorly in the other  classes too and it just like totally  shifted what my identity was because you  know at that time i was like i'm a good  student  this is proving that i'm not a good  student or there's something  um  i i've failed you know and i just  couldn't i couldn't handle it um and  only like years later  have i like  uh understood the impact of that in my  life and and how that impacted what what  i chose to do this would this would be  18 or 19 or something yeah yeah  yeah i was um 18 and 19 at that time so  yeah i was just like  you know at that time i was planning to  um uh i was hoping to go to medical  school like i was i was planning to be  um a professional in in some sense in  the medical field and then you know i  also major in violence but this is about  the coping i'm sorry but i don't want to  go to the career side but what  yeah i failed i just i just couldn't  cope with it i didn't scroll like i said  i  something that i knew i could do i knew  i could get a degree in english like i i  knew for me that would be it so i like  chose the easy route and like if i ever  felt bad about it like the person that i  was involved with at the time would  would say like you know you're stressed  out you should smoke weed you know  you're stressed out you should get drunk  with me you know and that's why i  thought this might be going yeah there  was marijuana  alcohol yeah absolutely watching tv  shows on dvd  yeah  i said i don't know  exactly this kind of distraction and  self-esteem trying to feel good yeah  feel irrelevant exactly  what i was saying earlier in this live  stream what what generally in our  culture what is used as a coping  strategy is what i did it  obviously didn't work for me and i yeah  yeah of course not because it's not  going to solve problems no it didn't  solve the problem so yeah i i just  personally um i really do appreciate  what you've you know the uh  basically your strategy here is to have  something so meaningful in your life  that you know whatever it is  that's that's upsetting you whatever  tragedy that you're going through the  time it seems small in comparison to the  bigger things and if you don't have  something that meaningful you got to go  and get it  um i would just say you know this kind  of thing sorry i'm not trivializing uh  what melissa went through it's just that  i don't want to get to the details of uh  an education in organic chemistry  because some of this is but you know um  you know my father  wanted to be a baseball player  you know there are all these myths built  up about who my father was and i really  pisses me off that that tells you a lot  about who he was you want to be an  athlete  now one of the reasons i think he liked  baseball was that he didn't really have  to exercise he was not athletic  you know it's one of the always be kind  of stand there you know you can look  like babe ruth and be a baseball player  you couldn't you could in those days  and my father barry he always said he  would have been happy in life he would  have never gone to university he would  have never had any other problems if he  could have just played the lowest level  of local baseball so not national not  talking about being a star on a huge  scale but he said if you could have  played sandlot baseball  if you could have played triple a  baseball if you could play low level  crappy baseball  he would have devoted his life to that  never looked back he wanted to be a  baseball player now  what percentage of teenagers who have  that dream are disappointed  95  99 like  you know it ended in failure and not  most things in life are not like that  like sir we just had someone saying  they're going to learn russian in the  next two years  what percentage of people who try to  learn russian in two years are  disappointed you know like some but it's  not a 99 failure rate right you know you  you can do it you know  um you want to be a pro baseball player  you know  but in what did my father do  right he threw himself into  acting  what percentage of actors failed right  that inevitably led to  disappointment also for him okay if not  inevitably you know and um  it was on my mind before making this  video  i know  a middle-aged woman  who wanted to be an actress and it  shaped her whole life like you know from  i assume from childhood but at least  from her teenage years what she did in  college and what she did there after and  so on right she was trying to be an  actress okay what percentage of aspiring  actors fail you know i'm just being with  you my father was not a tremendously  handsome man i would describe him as  plain in his youth you know not ugly but  certainly  plain when he walked into the room no  one gasped and said who is that no one  said that's a guy with movie star  quality i've met i've met quite a few  movie stars  it's not that meaningful to me but i  will always remember sigourney weaver  she wasn't presented as beautiful in her  films she wasn't made into that let me  tell you if you met sigourney weaver  back in the day if you met her facebook  she was a really beautiful woman she was  a very striking one very commanding  presence  and if you didn't know who she was when  sigourney weaver walked into the room  who was that you know wow  and she was she wasn't even considered a  beautiful actress like compared to the  women who were really on the cover of  vogue magazine or whatever she wasn't  presented as a beauty icon for her  generation you know  she wasn't a sex symbol as we as we say  you know so you know my father was plain  you know this this young woman i'm  thinking of  she is also  plain not ugly but she's not beautiful  she's not gonna stand up she's not gonna  have that that going for her and  you know  this is the problem  okay  even if you say you're prepared for that  failure like even you say okay you're  going to go into little league baseball  you're going to go to the baseball  you're going to start getting into the  tryouts and then what have you you know  um and you say you know 99 of people  fail right  do you have something more meaningful in  your life right now  when the failure comes like do you  already have it you know are we going to  do what melissa described are you going  to start smoking marijuana drinking  alcohol and watching the family guy  yeah playing video games watching the  family guy on dvd or something you know  watching some comedy like what  okay  you can say that you're prepared for  failure right but i'm suggesting you the  only way to prepare for failure is  actually to have something so meaningful  in your life something so enormous that  this disappointment seems small by  comparison and  you know again i'm not saying this to to  denigrate either person  i think my father never got over it you  know  and i think this middle aged woman i'm  thinking of i think she never got over  she never will get over it  and like  she doesn't know any other way to be  happy  you know  she doesn't have some other source of  of meaning in her life so when that one  fails  and again it's kind of like what i said  about the failure of university  education it doesn't just fail once it  fails again and again and again you go  to another audition you go to another  you know right  um  yeah you know that's the kind of tragedy  you to live with so yeah you know  um  so a lot of intelligent sympathetic  comments here generation x gamer says  quote a goal-driven life is always more  productive and fulfilling uh there will  be mountains of problems in research uh  field trips  yeah  um  you know it's a little bit like youtube  though right  i think that most people  have a lot of difficulty being honest  with themselves about what their hopes  are what their desires are what their  expectations are and then  they have difficulty  dealing with the disappointment dealing  with  you know if that doesn't happen because  like  sorry you just said it's great  you've just said having a goal-filled  life is is fulfilling and and your  example is research  i've known so many people  who have phds and a career in research  and they're they're suicidal  they're totally miserable totally  hopeless  and  you know  um i know why i'll just be able to i  know why  they  don't know why  i think those are people who really were  not honest with themselves but what they  wanted what they were enrolling in that  phd program for in the first place  someone says they were fascinated with  ethiopia as a child and ask if i've  never been if i've ever been to ethiopia  no i've i've never been to ethiopia  wasn't my was in my field was my area of  research but yeah ethiopia is  fascinating um  so totally fine question  someone asked did you ever try to get  back into learning cree  again and again sure even during the  time i've been with melissa she's seen  me emailing and phoning up universities  that had programs for first nations  languages or something like that  she's seen me looking at the program so  for many years again again i tried uh to  get back in degree and um  both in canada and in the united states  there's one program that exists on paper  in france but i don't think it exists in  the real world  but yeah i really made a survey of voice  to get back in that field for many years  we got a question asking melissa what is  your biggest strategy in life how did  you cope with it but i think you've yeah  you've coincidentally you've already  answered the question i don't know if  you see that in before or after  yeah  okay so coming back to the comment that  started this all you know i i made this  comment with completely good intentions  or what i'm saying is  you know you can study languages you can  study history you can start study  politics you can start doing something  more meaningful than playing video games  both on and off youtube and then what  you're doing on youtube is going to  reflect what you're doing off youtube  and these tragedies your sense of  disappointment with your career as a  video game youtuber it's going to seem  like a minor footnote now i'll just say  two more things about this  one this guy the retro bro  he put a lot of work into his youtube  channel to my knowledge he completely  renovated this basement into a studio he  had a level of commitment and work ethic  for this  i've never known a single vegan who had  that level of commitment work ethic not  even the guys who were making  millions of dollars out of it you know  um  it is remarkable how much he was  committed to the dream and i don't know  if he'd be honest with himself about the  dream it's very easy for youtubers to  say they don't care about the size of  their audience they don't care about  views they don't care about the money  etc but you know probably he was hoping  he would be the next pewdiepie that he  would be a big success that this very  considerable effort he put into building  up the studio and probably building up  his own collection of video games and  effort going into that probably he was  hoping it would be rewarded with at  least having a considerable audience if  not a certain level of fame  a certain level of affluence income  money that that comes  uh from that success and again  part of coping with tragedy is being  honest with yourself with what it is you  want it what it is you can't have now  that you wanted before  um  so on and so forth  now  you know you get to choose  what you want  and you get to choose  what it is you're willing to do  to get it  and you may not realize  that in making those choices  you are deciding  who  you are going to be  five years from now  so early in this response i said look  you can change your life at any time you  can change who you are  and then your youtube channel will  reflect that your your life won't change  in one week who you are it might not  even change in  one month  or one year right  if i learn spanish  and i move to los angeles and i'm  speaking spanish every day i maybe i'm  making youtube videos in spanish or  talking about learning spanish i'm  starting to think about politics and  talk to people politics in spanish and  from a latino perspective or from a  you know  my life will change who i am  will change with something as  simple as that i'm using that example  because it's obvious  it's going to change me not today not  tomorrow  but soon  you know  and  you know i get it most people are making  these choices even at the best of times  just in terms of what will make them  happy  and that's why it's so crushing for them  it's so tragic when the choices they've  made  don't make them happy anymore  but the challenge i'm putting to you is  to instead make these choices about what  is it you want  and what is it you're  willing to do to get it  not in terms of what will make you happy  but what will make you  a better man  what will make you a better woman what  will turn you into the person you want  to be five years from now or ten years  from now  and when you're talking to a 15 year old  kid  they only know the difference between  being 10 and being 15  right  they can't imagine they can't visualize  what kind of person they could be at age  40 not unless you help them right  and i've known kids  who grew up on an indian reservation a  first nations reservation whatever you  want to say this you know sorry that's  the term still used as indian  reservation they have grown up on an  indian reservation where they don't have  positive role models of what a 40 year  old man is like you know i've i've said  this before when i grew up i knew my  parents were weird i knew they were  abnormal but who it was i could look to  as examples of normalcy what it was to  be a middle-aged person you know to have  a career and be accomplished they were  pretty weird too  right  so you know you can grow up in a  neighborhood where you don't have  positive examples in front of you you  can grow up on a reservation where you  don't have that in front of you and of  course even if you do have those  examples in front of you right you may  not be able to understand them and those  people may not explain to you this is  this is the path in life that they're on  and these are the steps you'd have to  take to be on a path  like that um so on and so forth  so that's the challenge and yeah it's a  challenge for everyone at 15  but for a lot of us it's still a  challenge at age 20. it's still a  challenge age 25 still a challenge stage  30.  people who play video games  want to imagine  that they're learning how to be james  bond  by holding a controller and pressing the  buttons and manipulating a little  three-dimensional puppet  that represents james bond right  and on some level  when you watch a movie  you may also think you're kind of  participating in or practicing that  these  talents these instincts and so on you  know  that you are in your way  living the life of james bond uh so on  and so forth by watching the movie and  you're not  you're not training yourself to be a  hero you're not training yourself to be  a spy you're not training yourself to be  a sophisticated intelligent  well-informed worldly person which is  part of what james bond  represents he's one of the few symbols  of erie addition and sophistication  james bond doesn't drink beer  he has a martini extra dry  shaken not stirred right james bond  wears a three-piece suit for many men  the way they dress  head to toe  from their necktie to their their shoes  is influenced by james bond and the  makers of those films know that you know  they have a wardrobe department you know  what's really linked to those things he  is an image of sophistication and so on  in a way that spider-man is not you know  it's a different kind of cultural  uh symbol okay  when you get up off that couch  whether it's playing the video game or  watching the movie of james bond all  right no you haven't been learning to  live like james bond how to become a  better person or become more like you  spawn you have been training yourself  to become a couch potato  what you're doing is fundamentally  passive  not active and here's the greatest  tragedy of all  if you enroll in a university program  and you sit down in that little desk  the chair with them  what you're doing  is much more similar to watching a movie  to watching a tv show  than you want to think it is  what you're doing at university too  it's a lot in common with a video game  when you're preparing for and filling  out that test that in fact  most of the models for self-improvement  we have in our society  are much closer to passive forms  of entertainment than really active  forms of self-improvement  things that involve your initiative your  innovation your imagination  um  things that would lead you to walk  in the footsteps of your idols your  heroes to become  a heroic  figure  yourself